add geopoint (#597)
mongodb/docs-app-services: source/schemas/types.txt

            }
      }
   }

.. _geospatial:

Geospatial Data
---------------

> Geospatial data describes points and other data on the earth's surface. Realm 

Reviewer: Let's replace "Realm" with "App Services"

> does not have built-in geospatial types. If you are not using Device Sync, you 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not have built-in geospatial types. Instead, you can model geographic
data using standard GeoJSON objects.

If you are not using Device Sync, you 
```

To store a GeoPoint in Atlas for later querying with :ref:`Atlas Device Sync <sync>`, 
the following rules also apply:

- It must be of type ``object``
- It must be embedded within another type
- Additional properties are allowed within the ``coordinates`` array, as long as 
  they are doubles.
- Additional properties in the GeoPoint object are also allowed.
 
The following is the Device Sync schema of an object with an embedded GeoPoint 
property named "location":

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
     "title": "MyObject",
     "properties": {
        "location": {
          "bsonType": "object",
          "required": [ "type" ],
          "properties": {
            "type": {
              "bsonType": "string",
            },
            "coordinates": {
              "bsonType": "array",
              "items": {
                "bsonType": "double"
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
   }

The following code block shows a document that follows the schema. It has a 
single embedded GeoPoint object named "location". Both the containing object 
and the GeoPoint object contain an extra property.

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

>    :emphasize-lines: 4-9

Reviewer 2: the code highlighting seems a bit off? unless you were intending on highlighting the geopoint properties + the extra property (but maybe we should do 4-8 instead to not highlight the last curly brace?)

>    :emphasize-lines: 4-9

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :emphasize-lines: 3-8
```
<img width="795" alt="Screenshot 2023-10-16 at 3 34 26 PM" src="https://github.com/mongodb/docs-app-services/assets/15657698/7064bb8e-3067-4d39-829d-5a179584bdab">

   {
     "_id": { "$oid": "65039d09fe4e46dddee31a3f" },
     "location": {
       "type": "Point",
       "coordinates": [-122.4, 48.12, 23.0],
       "optional_property": true
      },
     "another_optional_property": "geopoint name"
   }

GeoJSON Points and Device Sync Queries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

GeoPoints are the only form of geospatial data that Device Sync can 
query. The Device Sync server validates every embedded GeoPoint property with 
2 rules:

- The "type" field can only be set to the string "Point" (case-sensitive), 
- The "coordinates" field can only be set to an array of doubles. The first element 
  in this array (longitude) must fall in the range of [-180, 180], 

>   and the second element (latitude) must fall in the range of [-90, 90].

Reviewer: Aren't these just the definition of a GeoJSON point? Rather than restating the rules could we just refer to the description above it?

If a device writes an object that fails validation, it will be reverted with a 
:ref:`compensating write error <flexible-sync-errors>`. If a document that doesn't 
meet these requirements is written directly to the MongoDB collection, the server 
marks that document as unsyncable.

Querying
````````
You can query a GeoPoint using :ref:`Realm Query Language (RQL) <rql>`, 

> using the :manual:`$geoWithin </reference/operator/query/geoWithin>` to do so.

Reviewer: This shouldn't link to `$geoWithin` in the manual - that's a MongoDB geospatial operator. What we want instead is to link to the (not yet existing) Geospatial operators section of the RQL page.

> Although GeoPoints are the only stored type you can query, your query will often 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although GeoPoints are the only stored type you can query, your query may
```

nitty but don't want to assume their workload

            }
      }
   }

.. _geospatial:

Geospatial Data
---------------

Geospatial data describes points and other data on the earth's surface. The 
Realm SDKs support the creation of numerous types of geospatial data. However, 

> only persisted GeoJSON Point data can be queried. 

Reviewer: To @jonatlee's point in another comment, perhaps we could clarify here that there is no built-in geospatial BSON type (which is what the top half of this page talks about).

- If you're not using sync then you can treat geospatial data as a regular object and can query it in MongoDB with regular [geospatial operators](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/geospatial-queries/).
- If you're using sync then there's a smaller set of operators (i.e. only 1 right now) and some additional considerations.

GeoJSON Point
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A GeoJSON Point (GeoPoint) is a single location on the Earth's surface. The GeoPoint 
schema must contain the following fields:

> - ``type`` (string), which is always set to "Point"

Reviewer 2: [nit] I'm predicting the most common thing people will miss when they try to use GeoPoints is that "type" is a required field and must be marked as such in the JSON schema in order for the property to be picked up as a GeoPoint. Could we make that explicit here?

Author: @jonatlee to be clear, even if the schema doesn't require the coordinates field, it is also required in order to a) be compliant with the geopoint spec, and b) to do geowithin querying. Yes?

Reviewer 2: yep that is correct. The schema can't have "coordinates" as a required field specifically because marking an array property as required in JSON schema will lead to the schema becoming incompatible with sync

Reviewer 2: that being said^, sorry perhaps we should make it clear that it should only be the "type" field marked as required and "coordinates" not as a required in the JSON schema to prevent customers from accidentally creating sync incompatible schemas. it is true that both must be present however for those documents to actually pass validation though. 

as a side note, i was actually pushing for making "coordinates" a required field in the JSON schema and making required array fields sync compatible, but that was rejected 😅. i think the main reason is that it isn't immediately clear what "required" means for an array (ie, array length > 0, array is non-nil, etc)

- ``coordinates`` (array of doubles). The ``coordinates`` array must contain  
  at least 2 double values, and may contain a third:
    
    - The first double is the longitude of the point, between -180 and 180.
    - The second is the latitude, between -90 and 90.

>     - The optional third value represents the elevation/altitude of the point, 

Reviewer 2: Can we mention here that altitude won't actually be taken into account for queries though?

      in meters.

To store a GeoPoint in Atlas for later querying with :ref:`Atlas Device Sync <sync>`, 
the following rules also apply:

- It must be of type ``object``
- It must be embedded within another type

> - Additional properties are allowed within the ``coordinates`` array, as long as 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Additional entries are allowed within the ``coordinates`` array, as long as 
```
[nit] I think "entries" or "items" is probably more accurate here. Properties makes me think of object properties

Author: They are object properties, though, aren't they? We can have additional properties on the object. ?

Reviewer: I think the confusion is from "IN the coordinates array".

Items in an array (i.e. the lat/lon doubles) are array elements/entries/items.

The sibling fields of `coordinates` are object properties.

  they are doubles.
- Additional properties in the GeoPoint object are also allowed.
 
The following is the Device Sync schema of an object with an embedded GeoPoint 
property named "location":

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

   {
     "title": "MyObject",
     "properties": {
       "location": {
         "bsonType": "object",
         "required": [ "type" ],
         "properties": {
           "type": {
             "bsonType": "string",
           },
           "coordinates": {
             "bsonType": "array",
             "items": {
               "bsonType": "double"
             }
           }
          }
         }
       },

>     "additionalProperties": true

Reviewer 2: Also wanted to ping and check if setting "additionalProperties" will lead to this property being interpreted as a dictionary versus an object. Happy to also follow up with my team if no one knows

Author: @jonatlee I don't know. If you don't mind checking, I'd appreciate it. How does it change the schema definition, though?

Reviewer 2: I can check in with the team, but I guess I also don't think it's totally necessary to include here in the example. I suspect most people will just want to know how to specify a GeoJSON point without any additional properties within the point, so having the minimum definition as an example should suffice imo. Let me know if you feel strongly about this though

Reviewer 2: Yeah, so just checked on this -- specifying "additionalProperties" in addition to "properties" for an embedded object will make the entire schema sync-incompatible. So let's omit specifying "additionalProperties" in the example

>     "additionalProperties": true

Reviewer: We need to move this `additionalProperties` field to describe the `locations` embedded object instead of the root object

Author: As per Jonathon's comments, I've removed it entirely.

   }

> The following code block shows a document that follows the schema. It has a 

Reviewer 2: [nit] It seems like the example below is inconsistent with the schema above. Perhaps we could align the two?

single embedded GeoPoint object named "location". Both the containing object 
and the GeoPoint object contain an extra property.

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false
   :emphasize-lines: 4-9

>    {

Reviewer 2: [nit] probably worth adding some whitespace here (similar to the spacing in the above code block) to make the code block a bit more readable

     "_id":{"$oid":"65039d09fe4e46dddee31a3f"},
     "carrier":"SuperCheapMobileProvider",

>      "location":{

Reviewer 2: I think between if we want to only show one example of a GeoPoint here, I kind of like having just the minimum requirements for a GeoPoint laid out here (ie without the extra properties -- just "type" and "coordinates").

Reviewer 2: Got it. I get that we have it here for demonstrative purposes, but i do think for most use cases people will only want to have "type"/"coordinates" specified in the geopoint embedded structure (let me know if you disagree though). That was the main reason why I was proposing keeping it minimal.

I'm on board with having an additional property at the same level as `"location"` in this example (`"another_optional_property"`), but still feel like it's fine to keep the geopoint properties as just "type"/"coordinates"

>        "type":"point",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       "type": "Point",
```
"Point" is case-sensitive

Reviewer 2: Gotcha -- it might work for local queries, but for synced queries it needs to be "Point", as MongoDB only will accept "Point" I believe

> single embedded GeoPoint object named "location". Both the containing object 

Reviewer 2: [nit] I don't think this statement is accurate anymore (just the containing object has an extra property)

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false
   :emphasize-lines: 3-6

   {
     "_id": { "$oid": "65039d09fe4e46dddee31a3f" },
     "location": {
       "type": "Point",
       "coordinates": [-122.4, 48.12, 23.0]
      },
     "another_optional_property": "geopoint name"
   }

GeoJSON Points and Device Sync Queries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

GeoPoints are the only form of geospatial data that Device Sync can 
query. The Device Sync server validates every embedded GeoPoint property with 
the rules outlined above.

If a device writes an object that fails validation, it will be reverted with a 
:ref:`compensating write error <flexible-sync-errors>`. If a document that doesn't 
meet these requirements is written directly to the MongoDB collection, the server 

> marks that document as unsyncable.

Reviewer 2: [nit] Do you mind linking the unsyncable documents docs here? https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/mongodb/internal-database-usage/#unsynced-documents

Querying
````````
You can query a GeoPoint using :ref:`Realm Query Language (RQL) <rql>`, 

> using ``$geoWithin`` to do so. Although GeoPoints are the only stored type you 

Reviewer 2: [nit] `$geoWithin` is a MongoDB operator. The RQL equivalent does not contain a dollar sign

contain other geospatial types. For example, this partial query looks for all points 
within the specified GeoCircle:

.. code-block:: json
   :copyable: false

>    location geoWithin GeoCircle([-73.981209, 40.725055], 0.00050464271

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   location geoWithin GeoCircle([-73.981209, 40.725055], 0.00050464271)
```
[nit] Looks like we are missing a closing parenthesis here

A GeoJSON Point is a single location on the Earth's surface, described by its 
longitude and latitude. To ensure wide compatibility, App Services stores these 
points in accordance to the `GeoJSON spec <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7946>`_, 
which has additional requirements. Specifically, you must apply the following 
rules to the GeoPoint:

- It must be of type ``object``
- It must be embedded within another type
- It must contain the following fields:

  - ``type``, of type ``string``, which is always set to "Point"
  - ``coordinates``, of type ``array``. The ``coordinates`` array contains 
    exactly 2 double values. The first double is the longitude of the point and 
    the second is the latitude.

- Additional properties are allowed.
 
 The following is the schema of a GeoPoint:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "title": "MyObject",
     "properties": {
       "location": {
         "bsonType": "object",
         "required": [ "type" ],
         "properties": {
           "type": {
             "bsonType": "string",
           },
           "coordinates": {
             "bsonType": "array",
             "items": {
               "bsonType": "double"

>              }

Author: clever!

>              }

Reviewer: One wrinkle here - the spec actually supports an optional third element

> A position is an array of numbers.  There MUST be two or more
> elements.  The first two elements are longitude and latitude, or
> easting and northing, precisely in that order and using decimal
> numbers.  _**Altitude or elevation MAY be included as an optional third
> element.**_

Do you know if we have a hard support/no support stance on the third value?

>              }

Reviewer 2: The MongoDB server will tolerate values past the first two elements in the array of doubles. It's just that the query will only actually look at the first two.

>              }

Author: @nlarew, I changed the `maxItems` to 3, and updated the preceding paragraph to mention the optional elevation double.

           }
         }
       },
       "another_property": {
             "bsonType": "double"
       },
     }
   }

Querying GeoJSON Points
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can query geospatial points when using :ref:`Flexible Sync <flexible-sync>`. 

Reviewer: Leads me to wonder how I do geo queries with GraphQL & Data API (and maybe even MQL queries in Functions). I assume the current GeoSpatial project is only scoped for Sync and not the other services?

Author: Correct - FlexSync only

No additional configuration is required. 

To learn about querying against geospatial data, see:

- :ref:`Geospatial - .NET SDK <dotnet-geospatial>`
- :ref:`Geospatial - Kotlin SDK <kotlin-geospatial>`
- :ref:`Geospatial - Node.js SDK <node-data-types-geospatial>`
- :ref:`Geospatial - React Native SDK <react-native-data-types-geospatial>`

.. note::

   Atlas does not support creating an index on Geospatial fields, so querying 

>    large collections may reduce performance.

Reviewer: This just sounds... wrong? Can I not create a 2dsphere index in Atlas?

Author: https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-80402

Reviewer 2: Yeah, the limitation here is that you cannot create a 2dsphere index on an _array_ of Point objects. Flexible sync will index your query in our internal metadata under the hood and because setting that index is unsupported in MongoDB for an array of Point objects, those will be unindexed queries which would result in degraded performance.

Author: I'm still a bit confused by the intricacies here. You can define a 2dsphere index on documents that contain a single GeoPoint (as per [this doc](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/indexes/index-types/geospatial/2dsphere/create/)). But Flexible Sync...does what?...that causes those queries to be un-indexed?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, for queries on an array of Point objects, they will be unindexed; however, for queries on a single Point object, they will be indexed with the 2dsphere index.

            }
      }
   }

> .. _geospatial:

Reviewer 2: Wanted to ping this and see if it still makes sense to keep this here

Geospatial Data
---------------

Geospatial data describes points and other data on the earth's surface. App 
Services supports defining GeoJSON Point data in a schema. 

GeoJSON Point
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A GeoJSON Point is a single location on the Earth's surface, described by its 
longitude and latitude. To ensure wide compatibility, App Services stores these 
points in accordance to the `GeoJSON spec <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7946>`_.

> To store a GeoPoint in Atlas, you must follow these rules:

Reviewer: nit - these aren't really requirements for storing in Atlas so much as:

- a schema/definition of a GeoJSON Point in general
- requirements for how you use Point objects in your Sync models (i.e. "It must be embedded within another type")

For the "embedded within another type" requirement, I think we can be clearer that the limitation is specifically if you want to query the `Point` field with geospatial RQL operators. You could totally have a regular object type called `Point` that follows this schema and it would save & sync just fine, right?

Reviewer 2: yeah, I guess it may be nice to introduce what the JSON schema for a GeoJSON Point would look like perhaps before diving into how to structure the MongoDB documents themselves (unless I'm misunderstanding your comment). I think the main thing we need to make clear here is that the Atlas Device Sync will only recognize a property as a GeoJSON Point if the JSON schema meets the proper embedded object structure. The structure of the documents themselves should follow this schema, and are subject to additional constraints (noted below in the comment below / in this doc [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10aAwBVwWRl2OOiG8RCXfT_-ejIWe6KmYFtrZgGPW15k/edit#heading=h.fgl0tx27vwoj))

- It must be of type ``object``
- It must be embedded within another type
- It must contain the following fields:

  - ``type``, which is always set to "Point"
  - ``coordinates``, of type ``array``. The ``coordinates`` array contains 
    exactly 2 double values. The first double is the longitude of the point and 
    the second is the latitude.

- Additional properties are allowed.
 
The following is the schema of an object where the "location" property is 
a GeoPoint:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "title": "MyObject",
     "properties": {
       "location": {
         "bsonType": "object",
         "required": [ "type" ],
         "properties": {
           "type": {
             "bsonType": "string",

>              "const": "Point"

Reviewer 2: [nit] The "const": "Point" is not necessary in order for the server to interpret an embedded object as a GeoJSON Point. I think we should remove it

Author: @jonatlee I'm confused; isn't the "type" property required _and_ also must be set to "point"? The spec suggests that's the case.

Reviewer 2: [This](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mOV04pa_Wl4uC5l6wBooQWyv2OVsBll6gtKaWl-ugGE/edit#bookmark=id.y8wrmys9ft74) is the expected minimum JSON schema structure for defining a GeoPoint property. We originally were going to include "enum": ["Point"] similar to the above but we decided that it wasn't necessary. The server performs validation on top of the JSON schema validation that ensures that the "type" field will only ever get set to "Point". That is what 3.) in this comment https://github.com/mongodb/docs-app-services/pull/597#discussion_r1347878102

Author: @jonatlee one last question on the schema: "type" is the only required property? Not "coordinates", too?

Reviewer 2: Arrays must be optional in order to be sync compatible, so "coordinates" should not be specified as part of the required fields lists. The server will ensure that writes to "coordinates" will always leave it in a valid state though (array of doubles with length >= 2, longitude is in the range [-180, 180] and latitude is in the range [-90, 90])

           },
           "coordinates": {
             "bsonType": "array",
             "items": {
               "bsonType": "double",

>                 "minItems": 2,

Reviewer 2: [nit] We actually decided that "minItems" and "maxItems" weren't worth adding into the JSON schema definition, and the only requirement for "coordinates" is that it must have "bsonType": "array", and items "bsonType": "double".

Author: @jonatlee  So the schema doesn't enforce the presence of the "type" property or it's value as "Point"?

Reviewer 2: "type" is required -- it needs to be explicitly included in the required fields list in order for the embedded object to be treated as a Point by the server. 

Outside of any schema validation, the value of "type" is checked by the server on properties that have been marked as a GeoPoint as writes are coming in to ensure that it never gets set to anything other than "Point".

If "type" gets set to something other than "Point" by a mobile device, the server will issue a compensating write to the client which effectively reverts the write. 

If "type" gets set to something other than "Point" due to a change directly to MongoDB, the server will mark the written document as unsyncable.

                "maxItems": 2
             }
           }
         }
       },

>        "additional_location_property": {

Reviewer 2: [nit] I think to illustrate the point that additional properties can be stored within the "location" embedded object and still be considered a GeoJSON Point by the server, we probably want a structure like this:

```
"location": {
     "bsonType": "object",
     "required": [ "type" ],
     "properties": {
         "type": {
             "bsonType": "string"
         },
         "coordinates": {
             "bsonType": "array"
             "items": {
               "bsonType": "double"
             }
         },
         "additional_location_property": {
             "bsonType": "string"
         }
    }
}
```

Reviewer 2: Perhaps it would also be worth giving an example of the minimum JSON schema requirements for a GeoJSON Point versus it with the additional property. 

So this would be an example of an embedded object satisfying the minimum requirements:
```
"location": {
     "bsonType": "object",
     "required": [ "type" ],
     "properties": {
         "type": {
             "bsonType": "string"
         },
         "coordinates": {
             "bsonType": "array"
             "items": {
               "bsonType": "double"
             }
         }
    }
}
```
And then including the above as reference too

Reviewer: We should probably do [`additionalProperties: true`](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/object#additionalproperties) instead of using a synthetic example field in the schema.

Reviewer 2: I forget if this is the case, but we might treat the object as a dictionary internally if there is both additionalProperties and properties specified? https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/schemas/types/#dictionary-of-mixed-bson-types

             "bsonType": "string"
       },
     }
   }

> 

Reviewer 2: I think there are more things that we should mention in the sync-specific docs here; especially because it seems unclear to me at the moment whether future geospatial support will be rolled out in Realm at the same time as Atlas Device Sync.
1. `geoWithin` is the only operator supported in querying in Atlas Device Sync
2. GeoJSON Points are the _only_ form of geospatial data that can be queried in Atlas Device Sync. Note that this does not mean that you can't use the `geoWithin` operator against the supported geospatial types in Realm (eg. `location geoWithin GeoCircle([-73.981209, 40.725055], 0.00050464271`). It's just that the field name being operated on in the geoWithin operator (the LHS of the geoWithin operator) can only correspond to a GeoJSON Point property.
3. The sync server will perform GeoJSON Point validation for changes to **_any_** property that matches the JSON schema embedded object structure noted above (note that this is not just a GeoJSON Point property that is queryable, any property in the JSON schema that matches the embedded object structure above is subject to this!). The checks will specifically ensure that: (1) the "type" field can only be set to the string "Point" (case-sensitive), and (2) the "coordinates" field can only be set to an array of doubles. The first element in the "coordinates" array (longitude) must fall in the range of [-180, 180], and the second element (latitude) must fall in the range of [-90, 90].
  i. If a **device** makes a write that violates the above constraints, then it will be reverted via a [compensating write](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/sync/error-handling/errors/#std-label-flexible-sync-errors). 
  ii. If a **write to MongoDB** violates the above constraints, then the offending document will become [unsyncable](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/mongodb/internal-database-usage/#unsynced-documents). 
4. There is now a new option in the "BsonType" Select dropdown in the Rich Schema editor in the Schema Page UI that will automatically fill in the necessary requirements for marking a property as a GeoJSON Point. See [here](https://github.com/10gen/baas-ui/pull/3413) for what that looks like.

Author: @jonatlee - confused on point 2. Are you saying any embedded object that "looks like" a GeoPoint is validated? And if so, what does "look like" mean, because if it doesn't meet all the requirements of a GeoPoint, does it get skipped by the validator, or fail validation? How do we draw the line there?

Reviewer 2: Yes, any property that is considered to be a GeoPoint according to the server's understanding of what a GeoPoint is is subject to the validation. If it does not meet all the requirements for specifying a GeoPoint, then no GeoPoint validation will come into play for that property. The line is drawn in that the following minimum requirements must be met in order for it to be considered a GeoPoint:
1. The property is an embedded object
2. The property contains a required field, "type", that is a string
3. The property contains a field, "coordinates", that must be an array of doubles

For example, the "location" field in the example below would fulfill these minimum requirements and be considered a GeoPoint by the server
```
{
    "title": "myTable",
    "required": ["_id"]
    "properties": {
        "_id": { "bsonType": "objectId" },
        "location": {
            "bsonType": "object",
            "required": [ "type" ],
            "properties": {
                "type": {
                    "bsonType": "string"
                },
                "coordinates": {
                    "bsonType": "array",
                    "items": {
                        "bsonType": "double"
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Author: @jonatlee My question wasn't clear. I understand what is required to pass validation, but what I don't understand is this:
> any property that is considered to be a GeoPoint according to the server's understanding of what a GeoPoint is is subject to the validation

So the server understands a Geopoint has an embedded object with the above requirements, so in order for it to identify a Geopoint, it has already validated that's what it is? 

Or is it: "I see an embedded object with a 'type' and 'coordinates' properties, but 'type' isn't set to 'Point' (and/or 'coordinates isn't an array of >=2 doubles)"?

Reviewer 2: The JSON schema requirements for a GeoPoint exists to answer the question of "should we run the GeoPoint validation checks against this property" whenever a write is made by a mobile client or directly to MongoDB. 

On each write, we look at the properties in the updated document. Any property in the updated document is cross-referenced with its JSON schema structure to see if it is a GeoPoint, and if it is one, then we will perform the GeoPoint validation checks on the updated state of the document. This is what allows us to ensure things like "type" only being allowed to be set to "Point" and "coordinates" only containing a list of doubles with valid longitude/latitude values outside of the JSON schema definition. 

Let me know if that makes sense. Also happy to chat over Slack about this if that's easier

Querying GeoJSON Points
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can query geospatial points when using :ref:`Flexible Sync <flexible-sync>`. 

Reviewer 2: [q] Are we migrating the docs to reference "Atlas Device Sync" instead of "Flexible Sync"? Should we also do that here?

Author: Yes. I let this one slip through. :(

No additional configuration is required. 

> To learn about querying against geospatial data, see:

Reviewer 2: I think it could be cool to have a demo/walkthrough app where it tells you how to setup a Device Sync app from start to finish that is querying on geospatial data. Perhaps out of the scope of this ticket though

Author: Yes, cool and way beyond the scope. :) I have built one, so perhaps at some point I can water it down to use as a sample.
